---
id: 006
title: SVG's & Anime.js
date: 2020-06-3
description: Playing around with SVGs and anime.js
tags:
  - frontend
  - animiation
---

import {
  SVGExample,
  AddSVGExample,
  AddSVGExample2,
  AddSVGExample3,
} from "../../lab_modules/006";

Goign to playing around with SVGs and anime.js. Using this nifty SVG line
creater [SVG Path Builder](https://codepen.io/anthonydugois/pen/mewdyZ) I made a
path and drew it below

<SVGExample />

Now I've added a second blue svg path and using the timeline function to link
the two paths together. These animations can be chained together using the
`.add({})` There is still a bit of a problem with the animation instantly
jumping to the next start, which could either be ignored and the paths lined up,
or another animations added between them.

Now lets see if we can add a button and add a new svg each time I press it.

<AddSVGExample />

This doesn't work because the `useEffect()` rerenders each time a new id is
created. Instead I think I need to break this up into seperate components that
each deal with their own rendering and have the path and id passed into them.

<AddSVGExample2 />

Ta Da! That wasn't too hard. For this, I made a new component that took in the
id and a string reference to the path. Inside the component I was able to then
animate each piece individually without reloading the others. In this way each
component deals with its own animation and complete state and can then pass
wheather its finished or not onto the next part of the state. There are two ways
this could be implimented now:

- Either by having several arrays of objects for each part of the assembly line.
  For example

  ```typescript
  instance BottleManager = {
  PETBottles: Array<PETBottle>;
  PETGrinds: Array<PETGrind>;
  PETPellets: Array<PETPellet>;
  PETFibres: Array<PETFibre>;
  etc etc...
  }
  ```

  And in this way each time something finishes its line then it is removed and a
  new object is added to the next process. When these callback functions are
  invoked then there can also be the added chance of of it going down one of
  several paths. This would mean though that the state would get very large and
  complicated with each type having an array of itself.

- The second option could be that each bottle is a single object that travels
  the whole length of the assembly line and at various places the object is
  updated with new paths, new svg forms. This might help in being able to track
  something through the whole process as you could use the same ref to highlight
  or scroll lock to that object.

  ```typescript
  instance BottleManager = {
      Bottles: Array<Bottle>
  }

  instance Bottle {
      paths: Array[string];
      type: string;
      highlight: boolean;
      color: string;
  }
  ```

  This could mean though that the random nature of the bottle is calculated when
  its created and fed into the array of path strings. In this way, each bottle
  knows where its doing from the start which might reduce performance issues.
  However this could also lead to problems incase parts of the assembly are
  removed mid process.

For now, lets try use the callback function to trigger a second animation

<AddSVGExample3 />

Using the `complet: () =>{}` properties I could pass in a callback function that
could be used to add the circle once the square was completed. At this time I
could also remove the square or call on a different animation like fading it
out. I'd also like to experiment with adding several circles when a single
square arrives and then staggering their deployment. this could be interesting
for creating almost a particle effect with several bits breaking down from the
single path.
